---
layout: post
title: Worthwhile Reads & Interesting Stuff 1
date: 2024-06-17 09:09:09
description: First Issue!
tags: WRaIS
categories: WRaIS
giscus_comments: true
---

Hello Everyone to the first Issue of Worthwhile Reads & Interesting Stuff!

In this (roughly weekly) series, I want to post links to articles that I think are worthwhile to read and to further stuff like projects, repositories, videos, and more that I think are interesting.
This serves, first, as a private list for me to find things later and, second, for others with similar interests as filtered links.

As my current interest revolve around research in software architecture, LLMs, knowledge graphs, as well as programming in general and in particular about Java with some Python and Rust, many links will likely contain these topics.
Additionally, there might be some humorous material as well as some other general stuff (politics, sports, music, ...), if it fits.

The overall layout and format might also evolve over time to improve the overall experience.

Without further ado, here is the first issue.

#### LLMs & co.

##### [LLMs Aren’t Just "Trained On the Internet" Anymore](https://allenpike.com/2024/llms-trained-on-internet)

Large language models (LLMs) are evolving beyond training solely on internet data.
Companies are incorporating proprietary datasets, domain-specific information, and real-time data to enhance model accuracy and relevance.
This approach addresses issues like outdated or biased information and improves the models' performance in specialized fields.

##### [Breaking up is hard to do: Chunking in RAG applications](https://stackoverflow.blog/2024/06/06/breaking-up-is-hard-to-do-chunking-in-rag-applications/)

Chunking is crucial in retrieval-augmented generation applications for managing large documents and optimizing retrieval.
Effective chunking strategies enhance model performance by ensuring relevant information is retrieved and used.
The article discusses techniques for efficient chunking, improving overall system efficiency and accuracy in handling extensive datasets.
This is a nice entry point for RAG.

##### [Better RAG results with Reciprocal Rank Fusion and Hybrid Search](https://www.assembled.com/blog/better-rag-results-with-reciprocal-rank-fusion-and-hybrid-search)

Combining Reciprocal Rank Fusion (RRF) and Hybrid Search improves RAG systems by integrating multiple search strategies.
This method enhances answer accuracy and relevance by leveraging the strengths of different retrieval techniques, leading to better performance in information retrieval tasks.

##### [To Believe or Not to Believe Your LLM](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2406.02543)

This paper explores uncertainty quantification in LLMs, focusing on distinguishing between epistemic and aleatoric uncertainties.
By deriving an information-theoretic metric, the authors provide a method to detect unreliable outputs, particularly hallucinations, in model responses.
Experiments show the effectiveness of this approach in improving response reliability.

#### Software development

##### [Conversation in forums: How software forum posts discuss potential development insights](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0164121224001535)

This research paper adresses discussion in software forum posts.
One interesting aspect is their result that 98\% of user feedback is relevant to software requirements.
Moreover, the forum posts contain contextual information that can be used to resolve issues.

This was the first (short) issue of WRaIS!
See you next week!
